week_1/1.5.1 Installing Bash for Windows Users.md, before:

#Installing Bash for Windows Users
-----

If you notice a lot of our recordings are recorded from Mac computers. Mac computers have a native command line prompt called the Terminal where we run unix commands as well as the python3 interpreter. Linux users can also use their native command line prompt to run the same commands as we do throughout this course. 

Windows users however will have a harder time because the native command line prompt that comes with Windows does not have support for many of the unix commands that we will use. This is why we highly recommend downloading an enhanced command line prompt like Babun. You can download [Babun here](http://babun.github.io).

Click on the Download button, extract the zip folder, double click the babun folder and run the install batch file. A black command will popup copying a number of files to your computer. This takes around five minutes so give it some time to fully install.

After it is completed you should have the Babun command prompt running. If not there should be a shortcut on the desktop where you can run Babun. Double click that shortcut. Anytime in this class where we refer to the terminal, please open Babun.

Now that we are looking at the Babun command line, type the command

```
pwd
```

To discover which folder you are current in.

You can use all of the unix commands you are getting familiar with, like

```
ls -al
```

It also comes with git preinstalled.

##Note on the location of your files

One important note: you may wonder where your home directory on Babun: /home/[your username] lies.

This location is on your hardrive at the path:

```
C:\Users\[your username]\.babun\cygwin\home\[your username]
```

This is how you can access files in the home directory of Babun from the File Explorer.

Commit message:

started fixing installing bash instructions

week_1/1.5.1 Installing Bash for Windows Users.md, after:

# Windows Users: Install Bash
-----

If you are a Windows user, please take this moment to download and install a bash shell.  

**Note:** This step is not needed for Mac computers, which have a built-in bash console called the Terminal.  Users of Linux and other Unix-like operating systems can also use their native command line prompt.

Our favorite bash shell for windows is Babun.  You can download [Babun here](http://babun.github.io).

Click on the Download button, extract the zip folder, double click the babun folder and run the install batch file. A black command will popup copying a number of files to your computer. This takes around five minutes so give it some time to fully install.

After installation completes, you should have the Babun command prompt running. If not, there should be a shortcut on the desktop where you can run Babun. Double click that shortcut. Whenever we ask you to use the command line in this class, please open Babun.

Now that we are looking at the Babun command line, type the command

```
pwd
```

This stands for print working directory.  It tells you where you are working in your computers file structure.


## Navigating to the Desktop

Often in this course, we will ask you to navigate to your desktop from the command line.  This is a little bit trickier in your windows shell, because it starts you out in a special folder:

```
C:\Users\[your username]\.babun\cygwin\home\[your username]
```

To navigate to the desktop, you must enter the `cd` command, which stands for change directory.

## Kay: can you fill in here?
